# Supply Chain Analysis

### Project Overview

This data analysis project aims to The purpose of the analysis is to determine which part of the supply chain can be improved or shortened to deliver the product more quickly and efficiently to the customers.

### Data Sources

Supply Chain Data: The primary dataset used for this analysis is "supply_chain_data.csv" file, containing detailed information about each of the supply chain analytics and how it can increase the overall efficiency of business operations, which can lead to sizable cost savings.

### Tools

- Excel- Data cleaning & Analysis
- Powerbi- Creating reports

### Data Cleaning/Preparation

In the initial data preparation phase, I perfomed the following tasks:
1. Data loading & Inspection
2. Handling missing values 
3. Data cleaning & formatting

### Exploratory Data Analysis

EDA involved exploring the marketing data to answer key questions such as:

- Product type and Price: analyzing the Supply Chain by looking at the relationship between the price of the products and the revenue generated by them.
- What are the percentages of sales generated by the respective products?
- What is the total revenue generated by the various shipping carriers?
- What is Revenue generated by SKU (Hint: using a Line Chart to represent this)
- What are the various Stock Levels by SKU: Stock levels refer to the number of products a store or business has in its inventory.
  Now let’s have a look at the stock levels of each SKU (Hint: Use a line chart for this too)
- What are the various shipping costs by Carriers?
- Show the cost distribution by various transport mode
- What are the average defect rates by the various Product types and transportation mode?

### Data Analysis

Excel
- SUM(Product type)
- SUM(Shippng cost)
- AVERAGE(Defect rates)
- COUNT(Product type)

### Results/Findings

The analsis results are summarized as follows:
1. Carrier B generated over 250,094 in revenue which made it the carrier with most generated revenue 
2. In product type skincare ranked highest with 41.83% in revenue generation 
3. More products were shipped by road compared to other transport modes




















